
Reusable blocks
==============

That's pretty common to have a one block that you would want to reuse across several pages. For instance, that can be a pagination block, if you have several modules that use pagination.

So let's take a look, at how to define and reuse template blocks.


# Defining template blocks

All template blocks must be stored within `blocks` directory inside your current theme directory. The convention for block is the same as for template views - they all must in `*.phtml` extension.

For example, If you want to create a reusable block for pagination, you'd create a filed called `pagination.phtml` inside `blocks` directory. Done, that's all you need to know about defining!

# Using reusable blocks

After you define a block, you'd want to reuse it in some of your pages. Well, to do so, you'd call `$this->loadBlock()` method. As a first argument it takes a block name, and as an optional second it takes an array of variables to be passed to a block which is being included.

# Example: Defining and reusing pagination block

So, let's start by creating an empty file in `blocks` directory within our current theme directory. The content for pagination block, typically would look as following (assuming for Twitter Bootstrap 3):


    <?php if (isset($paginator) && $paginator->hasPages()): ?>
      <ul class="pagination">
    	<?php if ($paginator->hasPreviousPage()): ?>
    	<li>
    	  <a href="<?php echo $paginator->getPreviousPageUrl(); ?>" aria-label="Previous">
    		<span aria-hidden="true">&laquo;</span>
    	  </a>
    	</li>
    	<?php endif; ?>
    
    	<?php foreach ($paginator->getPageNumbers() as $page): ?>
    	<?php if (is_numeric($page)): ?>
    	<?php if ($paginator->isCurrentPage($page)): ?>
    	
    	<li class="active"><a href="<?php echo $paginator->getUrl($page); ?>"><?php echo $page; ?></a></li>
    	<?php else: ?>
    	
    	<li><a href="<?php echo $paginator->getUrl($page); ?>"><?php echo $page; ?></a></li>
    	<?php endif; ?>
    	
    	<?php else: ?>
    	<li><a href="#"><?php echo $page; ?></a></li>
    	<?php endif; ?>
    	<?php endforeach; ?>
    	
    	<?php if ($paginator->hasNextPage()): ?>
    	<li>
    	  <a href="<?php echo $paginator->getNextPageUrl(); ?>" aria-label="Next">
    		<span aria-hidden="true">&raquo;</span>
    	  </a>
    	</li>
    	<?php endif; ?>
    	
      </ul>
    
    <?php endif; ?>

Done. Now in any template, you can include it like this:

    $this->loadBlock('pagination');